It is my great pleasure to warmly welcome all of you and to say, Shalom.
Why is saying that appropriate?
Well Shalom is the Hebrew word for peace, and it occurs over two hundred times in the
Bible.
When its use is a greeting, just as I used it, it means, may you have peace.
So what could be a more appropriate way to greet all of you at the start of this pursue
peace, convention of Jehovah's Witnesses?
We are very pleased that you're with us, and we assure you you will not be disappointed.
To the contrary, you'll be glad you were able to devote three days to learning what the
Bible says about how to gain and maintain peace in all areas of your life.
But now, let's begin by talking about the person who has drawn us all together for this
convention, Jehovah, and how we delight in talking about our marvelous heavenly Father.
Philippians 4.9 caused Jehovah the God of peace.
Nice true, he possesses many qualities, love, justice, wisdom, power, but he also possesses
the quality of peace.
If you think about it, he is at peace with himself, at peace with angels, at peace with
faithful humans, yes, he is the God of peace.
But here's a question, does Jehovah keep this peace to himself?
Well, let's get the answer, Romans chapter 15.
And please, let's read verse number 33.
May the God who gives peace be with all of you, amen.
So he generously gives this peace as we'll be discussing.
In fact, he gives every good gift, every perfect present according to James 117.
And one of his finest presents is the gift of peace.
And here's another question, what kind of peace does Jehovah give?
Well, many equate peace with freedom from conflict and strife in one's life.
But the peace Jehovah gives is a lot more than that.
The peace that only Jehovah can supply brings in feelings of safety, security, well-being.
This Jehovah-given peace is described very nicely in Philippians chapter 4.
Let's go there.
Philippians 4, beginning in verse 6, do not be anxious over anything, but in everything
by prayer and supplication, along with thanksgiving, that your petitions be made known to God.
And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your mental powers
by means of Christ Jesus.
So notice, Jehovah is saying, do not be anxious over anything.
Would Jehovah tell us to do something it was impossible for us to do?
No.
But obviously, he's talking about not being overly anxious.
Controlled anxiety can actually be beneficial.
It can move us to show concern for others.
It can motivate us to work enthusiastically to accomplish an assignment.
But now what about excessive uncontrolled anxiety?
Well, I can lead to physical problems.
Depression can be crippling, debilitating, infebling.
But now, how can we avoid being overly anxious over anything?
The answer is given in the next words of Philippians 4, 6, and 7, after telling us not
to be anxious, Jehovah gives the antidote.
He basically tells us to pray, supplicate, petition him, and we will get that peace of God.
But now what does the Scripture mean when it says that this peace of God surpasses all
understanding?
Well, we could say that it's so amazing, so powerful, that we limited humans cannot
fully understand it.
It defies logic from a human standpoint.
Our hearts and minds may be filled with so much worry, fear, anxiety.
We see no way out, but we beg Jehovah for the peace that he can supply.
And then what happens?
Our minds and hearts amazingly are filled with calmness, security, tranquility.
Lorraine, a young girl whose mother was dying of cancer, said this.
I was in the room when my mother took her last breath.
I asked Jehovah to give me the strength to endure and to get through this.
Immediately I felt the peace of God.
But now what is meant by the expression, the peace of God will guard your hearts and
your mental powers.
Well, the Greek word translated guard is a military term that evokes a mental picture
of soldiers maintaining a day and night watch.
In the same way, see this peace of God can act like a 24 hour guard over our hearts and
mental powers, keeping them calm, secure, and tranquil.
Now here's a question, what is the key ingredient to are being able to receive this miraculous
peace of God?
The answer, having a close friendship with Jehovah.
The Apostle Paul experienced firsthand many times that having inner peace depends not
on circumstances, but rather on a close personal relationship with Jehovah.
For example, on one occasion, because Paul and Silas boldly preached, they had their
garments ripped off of them.
They were beaten many blows with rods.
They were thrown into the inner prison.
Their feet were fastened in stocks.
But in the middle of the night, what if Paul and Silas began to do, they began to pray,
placing sawns of praise to Jehovah.
In amazement, all the other prisoners were listening to them.
So obviously, their very, very unfavorable circumstances had not robbed them of their
precious peace of God.
So let's learn this valuable lesson from Paul and Silas.
Having the peace of God is not dependent on our circumstances, but it is dependent on
having a close personal relationship with Jehovah.
Thus far, we've discussed how Jehovah is a God of peace, who gives peace, and we've
talked about what kind of peace he gives.
But now we ask, to whom does Jehovah give peace?
The simple answer is, Jehovah gives peace to those who draw close to him and want to
follow his guidance.
So receiving peace from Jehovah starts with living a clean life following Jehovah's
righteous moral standards.
Many people in Satan's world, as you know, believe that God will accept them as they are,
that God in effect will lower his standard to accommodate them.
Can you imagine such pride?
That would be like a pot telling its maker, the potter, how the pot must be used.
And the potter must accept this, whether he likes it or not.
Well, we know it doesn't work that way, does it?
We have to come up to Jehovah's righteous standards.
Now he'll help us, but we do the changing, certainly not, Jehovah.
Interestingly, James chapter 3, verse 17 says that the wisdom from above is first of
all pure, then peaceable.
So if we want peace from Jehovah that will result in peaceful lives, we must be pure according
to Jehovah's moral standards.
Isaiah 48, 22 reads, there is no peace, says Jehovah, for the wicked, or put another way,
those who wickedly set their own moral standards will receive no peace from Jehovah and will
not have peaceful lives.
But we work hard to live by Jehovah's standards.
Now it's true, Jehovah does his part to help us, but he does expect us to do our part.
We could say that his blessing on our effort is somewhat like multiplication.
What do we mean?
Well, if we put forth no effort, there's nothing for Jehovah to multiply.
See, what is 10 times zero?
Zero.
A hundred times zero, a thousand times zero, a million times zero, we still have zero.
So if we don't do anything, Jehovah has nothing to multiply.
Galatian 5.22 tells us that peace is an aspect of the fruitage of the Holy Spirit.
So the Holy Spirit will help us cultivate and demonstrate peace.
In fact, John 1426 describes the Holy Spirit as a helper, but that expression helper doesn't
indicate it will miraculously do the job for us with no effort on our part.
Illustrate this if we can.
Imagine that you're working very hard to paint the outside of your house, and a good friend
comes to help you, now you're painting together.
But then you decide, I'll just go back in the house, and I'll just take it easy.
Well how long will your friend keep painting?
If he continued painting, he's no longer a helper, he's doing the job for you.
Luke 1113 tells us that Jehovah will give Holy Spirit to those asking him for it.
So if we ask for Holy Spirit and then do our very best to work in harmony with that helper,
we will enjoy peace with God, and we will enjoy and promote harmony, unity, and good relations
with others.
And what a pleasure it is to associate with those who display peace, this important aspect
of the Spirit's fruitage.
When a sleeping baby is suddenly awakened in the middle of the night by a loud noise,
it becomes frightened, doesn't it?
And he cries out for help.
But when a parent cuddles him and soothes him with reassuring words, he calms down immediately.
Well David, at Psalm 55, 16 through 18, said that when he was troubled, he called out to
God, and that Jehovah heard his voice and gave him peace.
Right David, when we're in anguish, we can supplicate our Heavenly Father and He will
soothe and restore our peace.
In fact, our loving Father is eager to do this for us.
Open up to Jeremiah 29, and notice he's eager to replace our anxiety with the peace from
him.
Jeremiah 29, 11, for I will know the thoughts that I am thinking toward you, declares Jehovah,
thoughts of peace, and not of calamity to give you a future and a hope.
And you will call me and come and pray to me.
And I will listen to you.
In that beautiful, our God is ready, willing, and able to replace our anguish.
Our own anxiety with this amazing peace that only He can give.
Well we've now discussed how Jehovah is the God of peace.
We've discussed who He gives the peace to, to those who draw close to Him, and earnestly
seek peace from Him.
But now let's examine how each of us can promote peace with others.
In the following video, Brother Kenneth Cook of the Governing Body will explain how
this convention program will help us to pursue peace.
On behalf of the Governing Body, I can say that we really appreciate your attending this
pursue peace convention.
Speaking of peace, we love the serene setting here at our World Headquarters on Blue Lake
in New York State.
The times, the water is as smooth as a mirror.
We occasionally see eagles and hawks fly by.
And in the fall of the year, when the leaves change colors, the forest can look spectacular.
More important than this tranquil setting though, is the abundant peace that Jehovah has
given to his organization.
We can say this because of the peace and harmony that unite us, no matter what our nationality,
language, race, tribe, or social background is.
This is truly spectacular, especially when we consider all the turmoil in the world
and how divided people are politically, socially, and religiously.
However, we cannot take our beautiful peace for granted.
It's not maintained automatically.
Each of us personally must pursue peace in order to have God's approval.
Jehovah certainly wants his worshipers to enjoy lasting peace.
That was true in ancient times.
God told Moses to have the priests in Israel bless the people with very reassuring words.
Notice these words that we find at Numbers chapter 6, verses 24 through 26.
And hear what the priests were to say to the people.
May Jehovah bless you and safeguard you.
May Jehovah make his face shine upon you and may he favor you.
May Jehovah lift up his face toward you and grant you peace.
The next verse states, and they must place my name upon the people of Israel that I may
bless them.
Jehovah has placed his name on us too, and he is richly blessing us.
Let's consider what this convention program is going to cover so that we'll know how
we can continue to enjoy God's blessing of peace.
First, we'll consider how to be at peace with God.
More greatest peace comes from having a personal relationship with Jehovah.
Making him our best friend benefits us and leads to peace in every other aspect of our
life.
How can we reach out for a close relationship with God?
We need more than a superficial knowledge of him.
We need to get to know Jehovah as a person and admire his qualities and ways.
Then we can love what he loves and hate what he hates.
During this program, listen for details about Jehovah that will draw you ever closer to
him.
Second, we'll consider how to be at peace with others.
Our home should be havens for peace for our families.
This means more than the absence of arguing.
It involves putting the interests of our family members ahead of our own.
As we'll learn from this program, that includes showing love and respect to one another, working
as a team, improving family communication, and worshipping Jehovah together.
Third, we'll consider how to be at peace despite trials and troublesome world conditions.
During this convention, we're going to tour the world to see how, despite opposition,
illness, economic problems, and natural disasters, our brothers really care for one another.
How they receive help from Jehovah's organization and how they continue their spiritual activity.
No matter what may threaten our lives or livelihood, we can be confident that Jehovah
can help us get through it and retain our peace of mind and heart.
Fourth, we'll consider how to enjoy peace eternally.
Once God's kingdom has lifted mankind to perfection, we'll no longer have to pursue peace.
As Psalm 72 verse 7 promises, the righteous will flourish and peace will abound until
the moon is no more.
In other words, there will be peace forever.
This program will help us to anticipate future blessings from Jehovah.
Can you see why pursue peace was well chosen as the theme for this year's convention?
To pursue something means to chase it in order to capture it.
Because of the influence of Satan, his wicked world, and our own imperfections, peace is
constantly trying to elude us.
Therefore we have to chase after it to capture it in our lives.
This convention program will help us do that.
May the God of peace be with all of you now and forever.
That's the heartfelt wish of all of us on the governing body because we love you dearly.
Please enjoy the entire convention program.
We warmly thank Brother Cook for highlighting some of the ways this convention program will
help us to pursue peace.
But now let's briefly preview the convention program that is coming our way that has been
provided by the God of peace, and you may want to follow along by using your copy of
the convention program.
To note, day one has the theme, Jehovah will bless his people with peace.
The first symposium will illustrate how love for God, love for neighbor, and love
for God's word, lead to genuine peace.
This year's dramatic Bible reading is based on the life of Jacob.
And as you will see Jacob gives us an excellent example as to how we can pursue the things
making for peace.
Thereafter, we will have the talk, the result of true righteousness will be peace.
And we'll see in that talk how we can resist temptation.
Just as a lion devours prey and assimilates it into his body, same tries to get us to
come to temptations so he can devour us and assimilate us into his world.
But during that talk, we'll learn how to reject his temptations.
Then, in the second half of day one, we'll enjoy our second convention symposium, take
delight in God's promises of peace.
We will be greatly heartened by Jehovah's promises of peace found in the Book of Isaiah.
For example, one of the talks has a theme, the wolf and the lamb will feed together.
Today, we can't even imagine feeding a wolf and a lamb together.
If we tried such, it would likely result in lamb shops for the wolf.
But Jehovah's promise in Isaiah assures us that peace will exist between humans and animals
and between animals and other animals.
The third convention symposium has the thought-provoking theme, follow the roadmap to family peace.
We'll learn how, despite challenges, marriage mates, parents and children can successfully
follow that roadmap to family peace.
One will enjoy the talk, loyally support the Prince of Peace.
That talk will remind us of the importance of maintaining our neutrality by not taking
sides on political issues.
To conclude day one, we'll have the intriguing talk, do not be misled by imitation peace.
It will contrast the world's so-called peace, with a genuine peace that Jesus will give
his followers.
But then day two, notice the theme, be found spotless and unblemished and in peace.
The second day starts with a symposium designed to invigorate us for our ministry so that
we can be ready to share the good news of peace.
That will be followed by the talk, young people, choose a path that leads to peace, and
that talk will encourage our dear young ones to pursue the full-time ministry.
And we want to say to you, dear young ones, if you do this, you will enjoy a happy life
and you will have no regrets.
Next, we will see a video that shows how our brothers around the world are continuing
their spiritual activity and are enjoying peace despite difficult trials.
Then, a highlight of the day will be the baptism of new disciples of Jesus.
In the baptism talk, the baptism candidates will be encouraged to go on walking in the
way of peace.
And why?
Because this is truly the best way of life.
Two more symposiums will use video dramatizations to contrast traits of peace records with
the qualities of peace makers.
And what a stark contrast between the two, you'll see in these symposiums.
It's kind of like the contrast between bitter and sweet.
Part one of this year's Bible drama will remind us of ancient examples of God's people
who pursued peace and will definitely be able to relate to their examples and relate
it to our current situation in life.
The day will conclude with showing us how to safeguard our unining bond of peace.
We'll see how we can do so by putting the application of Bible principles always ahead
of following local culture and traditions.
Now day three, the theme, may the God who gives hope fill you with all joy and peace.
The opening symposium will examine seven examples of ones who sowed peace and reaped
peace.
We will examine Joseph and his brothers, the Gibbonites, Gideon, Abigail, Mothibbasheth,
Paul and Barnabas, and modern examples.
We truly hope that many accept our invitation to hear the enlightening public Bible discourse
entitled Friendship with God How Possible.
Now if we think about it, we're not born as friends of God because we're born as sinful
offspring of Adam.
Actually, we think about it, we're born as enemies of God.
Friends you'll hear people say of a little baby, look at that little angel.
But more accurate would be to say, look at that little enemy of God.
Now of course we love that little baby, and it's not hopeless because our loving creator
has made reconciliation with him within the reach of everyone.
We can become a good friend of God, and that close relationship with Jehovah will become
our most valuable possession.
But then after we enjoy part two of the Bible drama, the concluding talk of this convention
will fill our hearts with a joyful prospect that universal peace is sure to come.
It's guaranteed by the God who cannot lie.
Finally, we'll join in singing a beautiful new original song, and we'll close with a
prayer appraise to Jehovah, the source of peace.
So dear brothers and sisters, there's a brief synopsis of our wonderful three-day convention
provided by the God of Peace that is coming our way.
And throughout, the program will be enhanced with dozens of videos, and we'll see our
brothers either in real-life settings or dramatizations that we'll definitely be able to relate
to.
In fact, the following video is a little small sampling of the videos you will see during
this convention.
I wanted to go up to the girls and smash their phones.
You're just a coward to get trash.
Why was feeling back then was just sadness?
Never really peace.
Hello everyone, Haley from Genoa Design here.
Is there just a little bit of envy in there?
In June of 2018, a huge group of armed men came to us.
They represented the ideals of my childhood.
Do you have any idea what this is going to cost us?
I didn't have a choice.
You went behind my back.
Where's your mask?
Do you know how many people have actually gotten sick?
Zero.
That's what always happens when you're just about to lose all your strength.
Jehovah does that something for you.
I'm so grateful that we made peace before the world turned upside down.
But here's an important question for all of us.
Will we prepare our heart to receive God's peace during this convention?
Ezra chapter 7 verse 10 tells us that Ezra prepared his heart to consult the law of Jehovah
and to practice it and to teach it to the Israelites.
Now what was it resolved?
Verse 11 tells us he became an expert in the study of the commandments of Jehovah.
Well in imitation of Ezra, how can we prepare our heart for what we're going to take
in at this convention?
Well for one thing, very important, by prayer and meditation, we can make sure that our
heart is ready, receptive to receive Jehovah's instruction.
And we can also make sure that in our heart, we are determined to apply what Jehovah teaches
us.
But then another thing we can do, we can pay close attention to the music video presentations
that will be shown before every session of the convention begins.
Now these presentations have been carefully crafted to help prepare our heart for each
session.
Such time, effort and expense has been expended in preparing these beautiful presentations.
So please listen carefully as the sounds and scenes prepare your heart to accept the spiritual
instruction that will follow.
Yes, may each of us be determined to listen attentively to what Jehovah is teaching us.
May we be determined to imitate the Psalmist who humbly stated at Psalm 85 verse 8, I will
listen to what the true God Jehovah says, for He will speak peace to His people.
If we do, we will learn how to pursue peace with all people to the praise of Jehovah, the
God of peace, who blesses His people with peace.
Yes, we will be successful in pursuing peace until we no longer have to pursue it.
Now what do we mean?
Well, think about it.
Does Jehovah have to pursue peace?
Does he have to chase it in an effort to try to catch it?
No.
Jehovah merely displays peace.
Well, in the New World, what a wonderful time it will be when we no longer have to pursue
peace, but like Jehovah, we can merely display peace.
But right now, let's be determined to continue to pursue peace and may this wonderful
convention that is coming our way, help us to do so.